As of March 2025, I am a former hospitality worker with over five years of serving various clientele within an assortment of enviornments. From getting pegged behind the plate as an adolescence, to dodging heat-seeking surfers and stealthy stingrays alike as a youth surf-instructor, I feel my pivot into a technical role I find self-fulfilling is somewhat overdue! Despite receiving a Bachelor's in Business Administration at the end of 2021, I was never sure where I would apply my creative, yet somewhat introverted, personality into a career path I would find enjoyment in pursuing. It was only after realizing the cookie-cutter nature of project management in my first job after college in Summer of 2022, and how I was a creative problem-solver at heart, did I truly consider stepping away from roles more suitable for jubilantly extroverted sales people. While this was something I enjoyed more when I was young, as I continue to mature, I continue to learn more and more about the types of work I find "career worthy." It was in March 2023,  I choose to explore the nooks and crannies of the back-of-house world as a dishwasher over a differing position as a front-of-house busser.
When I began my stint as a dishwasher in March 2023, I believed I had something special: adequate experience as a front-of-house employee. To revisit the past briefly, after the chaotic "outside" jobs I had from a 13-15 year old man, I decided it was probably worth exploring jobs that would provide a set schedule. It was in April 2016 did I get my first job as a cashier at the fast-food restaurant, Snapper Jacks in Ventura, CA. Not only was this place a satisfying segue from my previous surfing gig, but also it was the start of my passion for service in food & beverage. After seven months of work, and an uninspiring soccer season later, I found myself at Rumfish y Vino in it's debut Febuary 2017. Over the last year of high-school and two years of city college, I predominately held jobs at different restaurants and institutions as Summer occupations... The focus during this time in my life was my education. Nonetheless, aside from trialing as a Clinical Affairs Intern at Agilent in 2018, Copywriter / Website Intern for Koi Energy in 2020, and Business Development Representative for Bird Rock IT in 2020, the proof was in the pudding that I loved working in restaurants!
Yet, my passion for restaurants and hospitality had not even seen in it's final form as an Expedite at the Montecito Club in April - August of 2019  .... For starters, I found the challenge of serving an under-represented community: the elderly people. It was here I sought to test out ideas for projects such as "Time for An Upgrade" in my portfolio! More importantly, however, I was able to apply the fundamental principles of UX Design from the Google program I was enrolled in at the time. Concepts like accessibility were showcased in actions such as prompting the purchase and installation of a shelf responsible for hanging soup-pans. While this was an $180 dollar set-back, I justified the decision by stating that the pans were less dangerous when stored in a location where they were not on top of an invisible overhead shelf. Additionally, they were easier to grab; as initially different sized pans were stacked on top of each other and now, forever, they will be indiviudally hung. Changes like these exemplify creative problem-solving, user-centered design, and textbook empathy skills that made me a professional kitchen employee!
In retrospect to my time spent in an industry that has yielded countless stories, I admire how the relationship between front-of-house and back-of-house in a kitchen mirrors the collaboration between front-end and back-end developers in a DevOps team. I like how in the software world the word "folder" has two connotations, depending on if you are a developer or a user; just like how a "ticket" corresponds to completely different tasks depending on if you are a server or a cook. While it may seem like a vicarious conjunction between two differing worlds, realizing this connection helps me better define my aspirations as a mobile-applications developer. To become a software engineer, is akin to becoming a "cook." To put it metaphorically, just as front-of-house is "easier" than being back-of-house, being a designer is "easier" than being a developer. It is this exact approach that has directed my voyage so far!
To bring it all home, I have experience with Figma, Marvel, Adobe XD for creating prototypes, components, design tokens and other helpful processes to help map out the end-product. Please see how I used Figma to shape my Resume: docs/assets/Mock-UP Resume AAW.jpg . Through learning the fundamentals and technicalities of being a UX designer from 2023 to 2024, as well as having recently familiarized myself with the basics of web-development in May 2025, I am hoping to possess a solid building-block for taking on freelancing opportunities as a product designer. Ultimately, I hope that within a few years of improving my portfolio on Upwork, I will be able to land a full-time job as a product designer, and eventually, a mobile app developer!!!
https://aawdevelopssolutions.github.io/Resume-June-2025/ Thank you for reading!!!! YOU ARE AWESOME - Anthony A. Welcher June, 17, 2025
